Hello and welcome to the final round of logistic regression.
So let's recap what we did in the previous tutorials.
We started by pre-processing our data using our data processing template and that's made our data set
ready to fit the logistic regression to our trainset which is what we did in this step.
Then we use this logistic regression classifier to predict the test results so that we can evaluate
the predictive power of our logistic regression model and then indeed we made this confusion matrix
to actually count all the correct predictions and the incorrect predictions.
And now we're at the final step which is to visualize the trainset results and the test results as well
.
And now we're eventually at the final round of our logistic regression model which is the fun part because
we're going to visualise the training set results as well as the test that results.
And basically we're going to make a plot that will represent everything that is happening with our logistic
regression model.
So let's make this chart I'm going to do like in Python.
I'm going to take the code that I've prepared and paste it here.
I will select and execute the code.
And then for those of you who are interested in the idea behind the code that is how the code plucks
the graph I will explain how the code works at the end of this tutorial.
OK.
So let's do it.
Let's start getting the fun again.
So right now I'm going to paste the code.
Here we go.
OK so the first thing to do here is to notice that there is this Elam's that learn package that you
need to install.
If it's not in your package here.
So as you can see it's in my package just list because I installed it before.
If it's not here you need to install it so to install it you will need to remove this comment and you
type install dot packages and then in parenthesis ElemStatLearn that's the name of the package in quotes
then you select this line and execute.
And right now you can see it's installing the package and now the package is installed.
I didn't have to do it because it was already installed but that was just to show you.
And now we are ready to select the code and execute it.
And that is even if it's not selected here because I put the library Elam's that learn which ones executed
will activate this package when selected.
OK then this code contains 15 lines of code.
There was also the case in Python and that's because it's the exact same code based on the same idea
.
And I will explain this idea that means I will explain how this code works.
At the end of this tutorial.
But for now let's select this code and let's see what happens.
So command and control plus enter to execute and let's wait.
So taking a little time that's know but it's going to plot something.
There it is.
That's the plot.
OK.
So for those of you who follow the Python tutorial we obtain exactly the same plot.
So that describes this plot.
I'm going to enlarge this.
OK.
So let's analyze this graph step by step.
First let's focus on all the points here we can see that we have some red points and some green points
.
So all these points that we see on this graph are the observation points of our training.
That is these are all the users of the social network that were selected to go to the training site
.
And each of these users here is characterized by its age here on the x axis and it's estimated salary
here on the y axis.
Now we can see that there are some red points here and some green points here the red points are the
trainset observations for which the dependent variable purchased is equal to zero and the green points
are the training set observations for which the dependent variable pre-Chase is equal to 1.
That means that the red points here are the users who didn't buy the SUV and the green points here are
the users who bought who actually bought the SUV.
So now as a first step of analysis let's give an interpretation of what we observe here with this users
.
OK.
So first we can see that the users were young with a low estimated salary so these users here actually
didn't buy the SUV.
Then if we look at the users who are older and with a higher estimated salary what we can see that most
of these users actually bought their SUV and that actually makes sense because their SUV is more like
a family car and therefore more interesting for these older users.
Here with a high estimated salary besides we can also see that some older people even with a low estimated
salary actually bought the SUV.
We can see that we have some green points here that correspond to an age above the average the average
is here.
But an estimated salary below the average because the average is here.
OK.
So these guys these older guys although they have a low estimate the salary actually bought the SUV
probably because they've been setting up some money or maybe they finished paying off their mortgage
.
I don't know what's for sure is that they couldn't resist buying this very cool luxury SUV offered at
a ridiculously low price.
And on the other hand we can also see that there are some young people here with a high estimated salary
who actually bought the SUV.
You know maybe because it's a very cool SUV and they want to impress their friends and take them into
road trips or maybe they already have a family.
I don't know.
Anyway they bought the SUV.
Actually there are a lot of buyers so this must be a very cool and cheap SUV.
OK.
And now what is the goal of classification.
Now we're talking machine learning why are we making some classifiers and what will classifiers do at
least what are we trying to make them do for this particular business problem.
Well the goal here is to classify the right users into the right categories.
That is we are trying to make a classifier that will catch the right users into the right category which
are yes they buy the SUV and no they don't buy the SUV and we represented the way our classifier catches
this users by plotting what I called the prediction regions.
And so the prediction regions are the two regions that we see on this graph.
This red one here and this green one here and the red prediction region is the region where our classifier
catches all the users that don't buy the SUV and the green prediction region is the region where it
grassfire catches all the users that buy the SUV.
But be careful.
This is according to the classifier that is for each user of this red prediction region.
Here are our logistic regression classifier predicts that the user doesn't buy the SUV and for each
user of this green prediction region here our classifiable predicts that the use of buying the SUV even
if that's not the case in real life that's just a prediction.
But that's what our classifier believes will happen.
It is the classifier prediction compared to the truth here which is the point.
The point is the truth and the reason here is the prediction.
So that makes an awesome tool because for each new user of the social network Well our classifier a
logistic regression cassowary will tell based on its age and its estimated salary if this usage belongs
to this red prediction region here.
And therefore it doesn't buy the SUV or if this user belongs to this green prediction region here and
therefore buys the SUV and that way this business can car company can substantially optimize their marketing
campaign by targeting the social network ads to the users in the green region because these are the
users that are predicted to buy the yesterday according to our classifier.
Now the other very important thing to understand is that these are two prediction regions separated
by a straight line which is the straight line here and the straight line is called the prediction boundary
because its the boundary between the two prediction regions.
And the fact that its a straight line is not random.
It is for a particular reason and thats the thing very important to understand because thats the sense
of logistic regression if the prediction boundary is a straight line here.
Thats because our logistic regression classifier is a linear our classifier.
That means that here since we are in two dimensions you know because we have two independent variable
the age and the estimated sorry's that we are in two dimensions then since the logistic regression classifier
is a linear classifier then the prediction boundary separator here can only be a straight line.
If we were in three dimensions then it would be a straight planet separating two spaces but here in
two dimensions its a straight line and it will always be a straight line if your classifier is a linear
classifier but you will see later.
Thats when we build non-linear classifiers then the prediction boundary separator wont be a straight
line anymore.
I wont tell you more right now and I will let you wait for the surprise.
So here we can clearly see that our logistic regression classifier manages to catch most of the users
who didn't buy the SUV in the red region here.
And most of the users who bought the SUV in the green region here.
So it actually did a pretty good job.
However it seems to have trouble catching some green users here who in spite of their low salary bought
the luxury SUV as well as those other green users here who also bought the luxury SUV because as you
can see these green points here and those here are in the red region which is a region where our classifier
predicts that the users don't buy the SUV those incorrect predictions are Jews specifically to the fact
that I classify it as a linear classifier and because our users are not linearly distributed if they
were linearly distribution then we will have all the green points here in the space and all the red
points here in the space and then a linear classifier with a straight line could perfectly separate
all the red points here and all the green points here.
But here we have some rebellious points who are not in the want of linear regions and because our classifier
has a linear straight line separator.
That's why it has trouble catching those users here and those here you can clearly see that even if
you try to rotate this straight line here well you will always have some green points in the wrong category
.
For example if we try to rotate here this way like putting it down.
Well OK we will catch these green points here and the right green region here.
But since we rotated down we will take more green users here because this will go up and more green
users will be in the red region.
So that's the best separator.
The logistic regression test very good fine and it couldn't do better because it can only be a straight
line separating these two regions because to catch those users the green users here and the greenies
users here in the right category that is the green region are classified we need to make some kind of
a curve here to you know classify correctly those green users here and here and place them in a green
region and that would prevent our class very from making this incorrect predictions here because it
is a straight line with a curve here with catch all the red uses probably in the red region and all
the green users in the green region.
So that would make an awesome classifier and you will see how our nonlinear classifiers will make a
terrific job in doing this.
I can't wait to show you this.
OK.
And now eventually the last thing very important to understand is that this is the trainset.
This is a training center that means that our classifier learned how to classify based on these informations
here.
So I would hold my breath a few more seconds until I find out if our logistic regression classifier
can manage to make good predictions of new observations.
That is to classify new users into the right regions which by the way are fixed regions here because
these are the regions generated by the learning experience of our logistic regression classifier and
therefore won't change if we look at some new observations that is new social network users and that's
what we are about to find out on the test set.
So hold on.
So it's very simple we're just going to copy all this code section here.
Paste it here and I'm just going to change the training set here by test set.
Same here.
I change training set by test sets and that's all.
That's all because I structure the codes in such a way that we only need to change the trendsetting
to the test set here to plot this graph on a specific set.
However let's change the title here because we want to specify that it's the test set and it's ready
.
So let's select this and execute.
Let's see what happens.
And here are the results of the test set.
So that's not too bad.
That's not too bad because as we can see the major the majority of red points are in the right region
.
That means the region predicted to be zero.
And the majority of green points are in the right region.
As for the training center there are some observations that were incorrectly predicted.
That's normal that's because it's a linear classifier and it can not make a curve here catching all
the right guys.
And remember in the confusion matrix we counted ten plus seven incorrect predictions.
And if you want to count the incorrect predictions here you will find 17 incorrect predictions.
All right so that's it for the interpretation of the graph.
I can't wait to show you how we can make more powerful classifiers.
So it's going to be in the next sections.
And of course these are going to be non-linear or classifiers.
So for those of you who are interested in knowing how the code works.
Stay with me or we'll explain that.
So I will reduce this OK and let's explain this.
OK.
So the idea is that we consider each of this pixel observation point as a user and the social network
like an imaginative user.
And so you know for example this pixel point here is not a user in the data set but we imagine this
pixel point here as a user who has this salary and this age and we apply our classifier on this pixel
observation point on this user here so that the classifier predicts if the user is going to buy yes
or no.
The SUV then wants to classify your makes its prediction.
It's called rises the pixel observation point according to the prediction.
So if the prediction is no this pixel use one by the SUV then it will colorize in red.
And if the prediction is yes this pixel user will buy the SUV then it will colorize the point in green
.
And so we apply that idea on all the pixels in this frame so that eventually our classifier will colorize
all the points that he predicted at zero in red and all the points that he predicted as one in green
.
So now that you get the idea let's look at our code here and go through the steps of completing this
idea.
OK.
So first I declare a set of cross training set.
That's because you know I want to plot this graph for the Trenin set and set.
And since we're using Trenin set many times in the code I just replaced it by set here.
So that's when I copy paste the same code for the test set.
I just need to replace the set by trainset only here and not in the whole code.
So basically that's just the shortcut.
And so first we build a grid with x 1 and x 2.
So we take the minimum of the values of the trainset minus one because we don't want the points to be
squeezed in the graph.
And same for the maximum plus 1.
So by doing this we're taking the range of our training set observation points minus 1 plus 1 so that
so that our points are not squeezed in the graph.
And so we're doing this for The Age column of the trainset and the salary column of the training set
then by writing this like we are building the grid.
So basically with these three lines we're making the grid here with all the pixel observation points
that are our imaginary social network users.
Then since this grid set is actually a matrix of the two columns age and salary.
But for all the imaginary users that are the big SO observation points.
This is actually a matrix.
So with this line we just give a name to the columns of this matrix which are age and estimated salary
and then that's where all the magic happens.
Because here that's where we use our classifier to predict the result of each of the pixel observation
points that are the imaginary pixel users.
So we predict this and then you know since the printing function returns the probabilities we transform
it into one or zero result.
So that's why I call it WEIGERT because it's the predictions of all the points in the grid so that returns
a vector of predictions of all the points in the grid.
And then finally we plot the whole graph.
So in this plot we include all our real users and their real actions read.
If they didn't buy the car and green if they bought the car and we plug the predicted results of all
the pixel observation points that we created when we created the grid.
So that's here.
And so you know I'm using the color of spring green so that is the spring green color and tomato that
is the tomato color.
And for the real points I just use a green for which is the color and are and what three.
So this color is green for this color is red.
3 and that's it.
That's the idea behind this code.
It's totally fine if you didn't understand some things in this code.
Because anyway we're going to use this code as a template for our next classifiers.
And so we'll just have to copy paste this code but that's all.
So that was just for those of you who are interested in coding who are interested in how we can use
code to make such a plot.
But the important thing to understand here is that the logistic regression is a linear classifier which
in two dimensions means that it's a linear r separator and therefore it can miss some predictions like
the predictions here that are incorrect.
All right so thank you for watching this Arta toils and congratulations.
Now you know how to implement a logistic regression model using our.
This is the beginning of our journey in the classifiers world.
You're going to see that we will meet some more powerful classifiers later in our journey.
So I look forward to continue this journey.
And until then enjoy machine learning